libcopengl
==========

A very limited but fast opengl wrapper for python. Wraps parts of the legacy
fixed-function pipeline. Sorry, no benchmarks, but for simple opengl use it's
much faster than either PyOpenGL or the pyglet opengl wrapper. As to what
functions are wrapped and what not - you'll have to check it yourself from the
generated `copengl.pyx` file.


Implementation idea
-------------------

Use a part of `glew.h` (here named `opengl_preprocess.h`) from [The OpenGL
Extension Wrangler Library][glew] to generate most of the cython opengl
wrapper functions, but override some of the autogenerated wrappers with
functions from `handmadewrappers.pyx` because automatic generation doesn't
work for functions that have pointers in parameters or return values.

[glew]: http://glew.sourceforge.net/


Using
-----

`from copengl import *`  
and also look at the `example.py` file.


Installing
----------

There are three possibilities:

  * Copy `./copengl` to your own project.
  * `git clone` to your own project as a submodule and modify `sys.path` at program startup.
  * `python setup.py install`

Note that the `./copengl` directory contains (if maintained..) binaries for
all supported platforms (macosx universal, windows64, linux32/64). Enjoy the
fact that your program will run on every platform by just being simply copied!

The third `setup.py install` (and also `setup.py build`) method will
copy only the platform-specific binaries. Generating redistributable ``wheels``
will do the same, but the metadata has no indication that the ``wheel`` is
platform-specific.

Finding out how to fiddle with binary distributions and wheels, sporks,
eggs, hatchlings, pip, setuptools, distutils, .. good luck.


Building
--------

The `./copengl` directory should already contain everything prebuilt. But the
cython modules can be compiled by following instructions in `modules_src/`.
